# Ren Watson on Budapest Semesters in Mathematics (BSM)

*Written May 2026, graduated Spring 2026, now at UW-Madison Mathematics PhD.* *Attended BSM Spring 2024*

I went to Budapest Semesters in Mathematics for my sophomore spring semester because there are limited opportunities to learn combinatorics (at least through formal coursework) at UT, and BSM (and Hungarian mathematicians in general) have a particularly strong reputation in combinatorics. I think BSM is a good fit for a variety of students: it has a prerequisite of a semester of one of algebra or real analysis and offers equivalents of many of UT's standard math classes (i.e., algebra, real and complex analysis, measure theory, topology, stochastic processes, etc.) as well as a bunch of more advanced courses in combinatorics, geometry, topology, etc. that are more comparable to graduate courses or graduate topics courses. There are several other universities in Budapest with strong math graduate programs, and BSM is also pretty flexible about letting their students take grad classes at those if there's a topic being offered that is really interesting to you. 

In my cohort (~50 students), there was a pretty good mix of other math-grad-school-bound people who were there for the advanced courses and math majors who weren't super set on grad school and took a lighter course load to have time to travel on weekends and have more fun. BSM is a good fit for both of these types of people and definitely has course offerings to support a lot of different mathematical goals. I would especially recommend BSM for those who are interested in combinatorics (either as an area of math or as a tool in some other area of math). BSM is also incredibly open to finding a professor to teach a course on request and will create courses to suit the interests of their students in a particular semester. Many of the professors who teach at BSM are **incredibly well-known** for their research and make excellent recommenders for REUs or grad school.

The courses at BSM are generally on the small side (5-15 students). If you go for a semester, they each run for an hour and a half twice a week, and most classes do not have meetings on Fridays. Most courses have one midterm and one final, and there is a designated midterms/finals week that almost all professors stick to. Hungary is known for having exceptionally strong math teaching pedagogy, and I found all of the professors to be absolutely amazing and really dedicated to teaching well.

I was at UT on a full-ride merit scholarship, which gave me the full amount they would usually give me for UT tuition and living expenses to use in my semester abroad plus an additional $5k study abroad stipend. Tuition is about $15k per semester or $6.5k per summer term. If you receive any financial aid or scholarship to UT, they will typically let you apply it towards your BSM expenses, although it is a good idea to communicate with UT about this in advance. BSM technically requires that tuition be paid in full before UT typically releases financial aid funds, but the tuition deadline is flexible if you communicate that you're waiting on financial aid dispersal from your school. Rent is **very cheap** (BSM puts you in furnished apartments across the city center with other BSM students and has deals with the landlords of these apartments that keeps rent reasonable for BSM students); when I was there in spring 2024, I paid about 450 USD per month in rent. Food is also incredibly cheap (both at grocery stores and in restaurants) compared to Austin, and it is quite easy and cheap (via Ryanair or Wizzair) to travel around Europe for weekend trips. Budapest is an incredible city to explore with an amazing public transit system that makes it very easy to get around.

Most of my BSM classes transferred as miscellaneous upper division math credits, except for a mathematical logic class that I had transfer as philosophy credit to count towards my philosophy double major. One of my other classes ended up counting towards the math in context requirement for the BS in math (I did not request this, I just got an email from the department when they processed my study abroad credits saying I could count it as math in context if I wanted to). I'm not sure about summer BSM classes, but for classes taken during the semester, you can expect 3 UT credits per BSM class.
